## Graduate Research Background at Wayne State University

I graduated with a Ph.D. from the Department of Chemistry and the Institute of Environmental Health Sciences at Wayne State University in Detroit, MI.
My dissertation research focused on increasing the depth of coverage in human blood plasma through the enrichment of extracellular vesicles.
My graduate research focus is to isolate extracellular vesicles from human blood plasma to increase the depth of coverage in a proteomic screen.
My dissertation research brought me to the intersection of mass spectrometry-based proteomics, size-based separations, and informatics to identify novel patterns of disease progression.
During my graduate career I established myself as an expert in the evaluation of extracellular vesicle preparations, performing label-free and isobaric labeling experiments, and using informatics to aid in the interpretation of proteomic data.
Through this work, I have also established a proficiency in data-dependent acquisition, which I am currently honing at the Buck Institute for Research on Aging.

Blood plasma is a regularly sampled bodily fluid for routine healthcare screens, after sampling the proteins in blood plasma are interrogated via mass spectrometry or antibody-based immune assays.
A major milestone in proteomics research was published in the Journal of Proteome Reserach in early December when the Human Proteome Project announced that over 90% of the predicted human proteins have been detected and validated.
The announcement by the Human Plasma Proteome Project reports that there are at least 729 proteins found in blood, however many of these circulating proteins are not detected in proteomic screens using mass spectrometry.
The protein concentrations in blood plasma span 14 orders of magnitude and highly abundant proteins limit the depth of coverage by masking lower abundance proteins in mass spectrometry-based proteomics.
The low abundance proteins in blood plasma are the most likely to change as a response to disease progression and to change in response to a treatment.
Increasing the depth of coverage in mass spectrometry-based proteomics means that low abundance proteins can be detected and characterized in healthy and unhealthy patients.

Extracellular vesicles are membrane envelopes that are important vehicles of intercellular communication.
Extracellular vesicles carry proteins and other biological macromolecules from cell to cell, providing protection from the -ase enzymes that would degrade the cargo in the extracellular space.
The transfer of extracellular vesicle cargo from cell to cell is important for cellular function and disease progression as the physiological and pathological functions of the recipient cell are influenced by the cargo.
The main hypothesis of my research is that extracellular vesicles can be isolated from blood plasma to increase the number of protein identifications via mass spectrometry and that the protein cargo can be interrogated to identify patterns of differential protein abundance.
